work_notes/todos.md, before:

# Final Action Items
1. Documentation (Everyone)
1. Unit test (Everyone)
1. Config system integration
1. Executor integration
1. Multi-pipe wrap up
1. Type control:
    1. How to handle unknown types and stuff.
    1. Validation: a full validation is also too much work.
    1. Generation: probably too much work in 2 weeks.
1. A couple more modules would be nice.
1. Pre-processing support.
1. UI Integration (reader writer for annotation UI.)


# TODO Notes
1. A name for nlp_pipeline, anyone?
    1. Assigned to everyone
1. Prepare config system.
    1. Option class and YAML parse: zecong
1. Resource Manager.
    1. basically a dict to references
    1. add some register function 
        1. ResourceManager.get(resource_name)
        1. ResourceManager.put(resource_name, resource)
        1. zecong
1. Reorg initialize and init: weiwei
1. ~~Ontology management: weiwei~~
    1. ~~When there are many ontologies, how can we simplify them?~~
    1. ~~How should we store them if the ontologies are all over the place.~~
1. ~~Batching support.~~
    1. ~~Add a customizable sharable Batching interface.~~
1. ~~The process() function in Trainer need a name and a purpose.~~
    1. ~~Haoran gives a new name: consume()~~
1. ~~Logging clean up.~~
    1. ~~Delete logging config.~~
1. ~~Accessing problem:~~
    1. ~~Many fields should be stored as private, such as text, annotations in data_pack~~
    1. ~~Use getter, setter and add_xxx function instead of directly manipulating the fields.~~
1. Reduce the interchange format size if possible?
    1. ~~Probably no need to store all indexing along with it~~
1. Prepare to integrate with Executor.
1. ~~Some pipeline usage problems:~~
    1. ~~Use the with statement to simplify the load anv verbosity in processors~~
    1. ~~Reduce the need to calling "__name__" for users~~
    1. ~~Now the way to create Link requires a user to pass in the "tid", which add
     burden to the users to maintain such an id.~~
1. There is no component in set_field(), might be confusing.
1. Discussion of the Multipack interface.
1. How about the "view" method?
    1. Can be used to deal with the train test problem
    1. Can be used to do ensemble: the center distribute the views to different 
    classes, and it will take them back for ensemble.

## Symphony Problem:
1. Make sure the pipeline is stateless, so that in symphony
 you can start a new pipeline all the time.
1. Let's try to have a JSON schema in the future.
    1. Useful for validation
1. Let the med team use the non-symphony version.
1. Is it possible to ignore entries in JSON that the ontology that it doesn't know

Commit message:

Action items for multi-pack.

work_notes/todos.md, after:

# Final Action Items
1. Documentation (Everyone)
1. Unit test (Everyone)
1. Config system integration (Haoran)
1. Executor integration (Zecong)
1. Multi-pipe wrap up (Haoran)
    1. Some updates in the pipeline are needed.
    1. There should be a BasePack
        1. This pack stores essential information needed to handle 
        batching and processing state.
    1. There should be a BasePipeline
        1. This pipeline stores control the basic flow, such as chaining
        processors and check processor input-output compatibility.
        1. This will later be extended by Pipeline and MultiPackPipeline
        1. Multipack pipeline will have special logic check for selector, 
        let's think about how to make this fit with the interface.
            1. we may allow additional parameter in add_processor
            1. when we are adding Processor to the MultipackPipeline then the
            check should complain of a missing selector.
    1. There should be a BaseProcessor
        1. This processor stores basic input-output requirements. Its interface
         should accept a BasePack
        1. This will later be extend by Processor and MultiPackProcessor
1. Type control: (Wei wei)
    1. How to handle unknown types and stuff: cannot handle due to serialization
    1. Validation: a full validation is also too much work.
    1. Generation: probably too much work in 2 weeks.

# Follow ups
1. Pre-processing support.
1. UI Integration (reader writer for annotation UI.)
1. An BPE example

# TODO Notes
1. A name for nlp_pipeline, anyone?
    1. Assigned to everyone
1. Prepare config system.
    1. Option class and YAML parse: zecong
1. Resource Manager.
    1. basically a dict to references
    1. add some register function 
        1. ResourceManager.get(resource_name)
        1. ResourceManager.put(resource_name, resource)
        1. zecong
1. Reorg initialize and init: weiwei
1. ~~Ontology management: weiwei~~
    1. ~~When there are many ontologies, how can we simplify them?~~
    1. ~~How should we store them if the ontologies are all over the place.~~
1. ~~Batching support.~~
    1. ~~Add a customizable sharable Batching interface.~~
1. ~~The process() function in Trainer need a name and a purpose.~~
    1. ~~Haoran gives a new name: consume()~~
1. ~~Logging clean up.~~
    1. ~~Delete logging config.~~
1. ~~Accessing problem:~~
    1. ~~Many fields should be stored as private, such as text, annotations in data_pack~~
    1. ~~Use getter, setter and add_xxx function instead of directly manipulating the fields.~~
1. Reduce the interchange format size if possible?
    1. ~~Probably no need to store all indexing along with it~~
1. Prepare to integrate with Executor.
1. ~~Some pipeline usage problems:~~
    1. ~~Use the with statement to simplify the load anv verbosity in processors~~
    1. ~~Reduce the need to calling "__name__" for users~~
    1. ~~Now the way to create Link requires a user to pass in the "tid", which add
     burden to the users to maintain such an id.~~
1. There is no component in set_field(), might be confusing.
1. Discussion of the Multipack interface.
1. How about the "view" method?
    1. Can be used to deal with the train test problem
    1. Can be used to do ensemble: the center distribute the views to different 
    classes, and it will take them back for ensemble.

## Symphony Problem:
1. Make sure the pipeline is stateless, so that in symphony
 you can start a new pipeline all the time.
1. Let's try to have a JSON schema in the future.
    1. Useful for validation
1. Let the med team use the non-symphony version.
1. Is it possible to ignore entries in JSON that the ontology that it doesn't know
