examples/pipelines/README.md, before:

# Pipeline Demo

The examples in this folder

- Build a pipeline using third-party tools like NLTK and StanfordNLP. 

- Demonstrate integration of processors developed using third-party tools into a single NLP 
pipeline.


# Description

## Install the dependencies

- To run NLTK processors, please install Forte NLTK wrappers with:

```bash
pip install forte.nltk
```

- NER and SRL processors are built using texar-pytorch. Please follow the guidelines here 
https://github.com/asyml/texar-pytorch#installation to install it.

- To run `stanford_nlp_pipeline.py`, install Stanford NLP library using

```bash
pip install forte.stanza
```

## Downloading the models

In this pipeline, we use NER and SRL models. Before running the pipeline, we need to download the
models

For SRL,

```bash
python download_models.py --model-name srl
```

For NER,
```bash
python download_models.py --model-name ner
```

**Note**: The above script will save the model in `resources/`. Use `--path` option to save the 
model into a different directory.

## Running the pipeline

`process_string_example.py` and `process_dataset_example.py` build the following pipeline

Reader -> NLTKSentenceSegmenter -> NLTKWordTokenizer -> NLTKPOSTagger -> NER Predictor -> 
SRL Predictor

The configuration for NER and SRL Predictor are read from `config.yml` file and the processors are 
initialized during the pipeline creation. To see the pipeline in action, run 

```bash
python pipeline_string_example.py
```

In `process_dataset_example.py`, we show the use of `process_dataset()` method of our pipeline 
which is used to read text files from a directory as data packs. To run this example,

```bash
python pipeline_dataset_example.py --data-dir data
```

In the above example, we read the files from `data/` folder.

`stanford_nlp_pipeline.py` example builds the following pipeline using Stanford NLP library

Reader -> Tokenizer -> POS Tagger -> Lemmatizer -> Dependency Parser

We run this pipeline on an English as well as French sentence. To see this action, run

```bash
python stanford_nlp_pipeline.py
```

Commit message:

redirect pipeline example in pipeline README.md due to invalid hyperl… (#791)
* redirect pipeline example in pipeline README.md due to invalid hyperlinks for ner models

* remove --use-feature=in-tree-build as this option is removed and it's enabled by default by pip

examples/pipelines/README.md, after:

# Pipeline Demo

The examples in this folder

- Build a pipeline using third-party tools like NLTK and StanfordNLP.

- Demonstrate integration of processors developed using third-party tools into a single NLP
pipeline.


# Description

## Install the dependencies

- To run NLTK processors, please install Forte NLTK wrappers with:

```bash
pip install forte.nltk
```

- NER and SRL processors are built using texar-pytorch. Please follow the guidelines here
https://github.com/asyml/texar-pytorch#installation to install it.

- To run `stanford_nlp_pipeline.py`, install Stanford NLP library using

```bash
pip install forte.stanza
```

## Downloading the models

In this pipeline, we use NER and SRL models. Before running the pipeline, we need to download the
models

For SRL,

```bash
python download_models.py --model-name srl
```


For NER,
```bash
python download_models.py --model-name ner
```
**Note**: the hyperlink for the ner model has been outdated and no longer valid. If you want to try out the pipeline, this [training example](https://github.com/petuum/composing_information_system/blob/main/training.md) have models and datasets to all the valid hyperlinks.



**Note**: The above script will save the model in `resources/`. Use `--path` option to save the
model into a different directory.

## Running the pipeline

`process_string_example.py` and `process_dataset_example.py` build the following pipeline

Reader -> NLTKSentenceSegmenter -> NLTKWordTokenizer -> NLTKPOSTagger -> NER Predictor ->
SRL Predictor

The configuration for NER and SRL Predictor are read from `config.yml` file and the processors are
initialized during the pipeline creation. To see the pipeline in action, run

```bash
python pipeline_string_example.py
```

In `process_dataset_example.py`, we show the use of `process_dataset()` method of our pipeline
which is used to read text files from a directory as data packs. To run this example,

```bash
python pipeline_dataset_example.py --data-dir data
```

In the above example, we read the files from `data/` folder.

`stanford_nlp_pipeline.py` example builds the following pipeline using Stanford NLP library

Reader -> Tokenizer -> POS Tagger -> Lemmatizer -> Dependency Parser

We run this pipeline on an English as well as French sentence. To see this action, run

```bash
python stanford_nlp_pipeline.py
```
